attack behaviour test (fixed)

July 12, 2015

SASL gave me a few hints which led me to look how attack
and character were handling ‘killed’ and ‘die’ and it wasn’t consistent.

July 11, 2015

The attack behaviour test is failing.
When the target dies the target’s attack and the
attacker’s attack both die, but the player also dies.

The player has the attack pid as 0.340.0 but the attack
shows in the log as 0.238.0.

Scratch that, the attack is pid 0.340.0

Why does the attack have such a high pid?

The ranch acceptors only go up to 216

0.340.0 dies, but the player still has a link to it

I’ve got some confusion between the “killed” message
and the “die” message. I’m calling “killed” during an calc_hit
attempt which is odd and it’s also checking if the character
has &lt; 0 hitpoints. Hitpoints are now handled by the erlmud_hitpoint
process and no longer by the player process.

What should happen:
Attack does:
- calc attack wait
- calc hit
- calc damage
- damage
- stop_attack on ‘killed’ (target) or (owner) ‘die'(d)
- do I really need to know that this attack killed the target?
or do I just need to know that the target is dead?

HP does:
- killed if damage puts hp &lt; 1
- ‘killed’ is needed to distinguish between the attack
killing the character and the character dying from something
or someone else.
e.g. if two characters attack a third character and one of them
scores the killing blow
e.g. if a character has a non-character process damaging it
(e.g. drowning, bleeding wound, poison, etc.) and dies
from that while another character is attacking it.

Life does:
- set ‘alive’ to ‘dead’ if ‘killed’ is received
- ‘killed’ precedes die since every process so that processes
that need to know _who_ killed the process can get that information
then processes that just need to shutdown can subscribe to ‘die'
- send ‘die'

Character does:
- remove attack prop on attacker or target death

Behaviour does:
- remove attack on Target ‘die'
- I don’t think I need ‘killed’ since the behaviour just has
to remove any attacks against the dead target
-
