Focus, Stamina, Alertness Attribute

July 13, 2016

Example:
Stan is stamina.
Fran is focus.
Alex is alertness.
Archy is attack.

Archy: attack!
Alex: don't care
Fran: don't care
Stan: don't care
July 12, 2016
MUD idea: focus attribute. The more attacks you try and do the more your focus depletes and the crappier your hit scores are. 9:43 AM Stick with one weapon or attack to have a better chance of scoring critical hits. 9:43 AM Could also affect defense. 9:44 AM So if you're dual-wielding pistols, kicking, head-butting and trying to cast a spell then either you have to have a high focus attribute or you'll do poorly at all of them. 9:45 AM Also gives another attribute to buff with spells, items, potions, computer chips, blessings, bionic augmentations, training, meditation, etc. 9:46 AM I'm working out how to do attacks when an attack process can't directly communicate with weapon and body part processes. 9:48 AM I cannot directly synchronize any MUD processes so I have to find a different way to limit and co-ordinate attacks: stamina can limit physical attacks and focus can drive the player to be realistic with attacks that don't take much stamina. 9:50 AM Adds another dimension to attacks beyond just DPS or specialized damage.
Moderate spell speed, accuracy and effect with alertness (i.e. awake or drowsy).Alertness kind of sounds the same as focus but could regen much slower OR, spells could just drain it much faster ... but then they wouldn't prevent from just coming right back unless maybe firing a gun took 1 and a spell took 100. i.e. after you cast a spell you see a HUGE effect on your gun accuracy. I don't like that. I'd like to keep granular control. Actually, at least for gun shots it seems to work. No, I want something that says "how much can you do at once" and something else that says "how much can you do before needing to rest" (like mental stamina)
Alertness, stamina and focus can all work together ... well, not unless I keep resending the message, which I could do
